But you wanna be attentive.
Uh Yeah, thank you.
Any specific position, I'll just sit your way up
there.
Well, Andre is just,
um,
I'll show some slides.
It's all very natural.
Yeah,
it's
a bit
strange.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think it's
-- no bad like
-- this
-- and don't forget
-- the,
um,
so hi, everyone. Thanks for coming to this meeting.
Um,
well, as you all know, the topic of this morning's meeting is, uh,
the fact that we're moving and
we're going to get more space. So that's a very good piece of news.
Uh, but we also have to find out how we use this space.
So, um, if you want, I'll
just give a brief overview of what's happening
and then we can, uh, talk about well, arranging these new, uh, the new office space.
So, um,
in case you haven't seen the, the document,
uh, let me just, uh,
show you very briefly
the, the configuration of the, the space.
So, um,
well, there is nothing much to say.
Well, you know how many of usa reare present and you know that we a re, um,
a bit tight actually in our present location.
Uh That's why actually, the university finally um
allocated us this uh this part of uh the uni
building. So it's a t the sixth floor
and it's a set of contiguous rooms as you, you can all see from uh from here.
Um
So the, the, the one P, two P three P means the, the number of persons
as you can see we have. So a corridor
um
with a number of uh of uh of rooms of one person rooms, two person room and,
and three person rooms.
Um Actually, I think Agnes did this nice drawing. So she even put the, the views.
So we have the old town on one side and the mountains on the other two sides.
Uh We have some bathrooms for us.
Uh and the courtyard,
which actually means a sort of uh shaft because uh the court is uh down a t the,
-- the first floor
-- and just uh just a clarification question, a re the
number of people per room indicated strict or can we play around with?
I mean, if there a ree two people,
is it really that you can't put three or uh 2.5 or uh how,
how was it?
-- Well,
-- it's a bit difficult to say because um in fact,
we have some constraints in terms of furniture.
Uh they're here.
So, um well, your, your person, your,
your question actually is answered maybe by the third item.
So each person should get.
Um Well, it's a sort of desk, it's made of two pieces and it looks like a corner with,
of course, a chair,
uh, a filing cabinet that goes under the desk.
Uh, and, well, we can put hanging shelves over the, the desks.
So
I'm not really sure. It's possible to get 33 desks in a two person office. But, um,
we could try
what's, what should be said here. I don't know if, well,
you, I, I will maybe distribute now documents if you don't have them,
maybe it's easier.
Do you need something, Martin?
We can keep this for you.
Uh So it's, it's, yeah, you have a copy, Susan, you to David. I think
so. In fact, there a re more places than people. So we won't be that constrained
uh as you know, some of us and some of you here actually Martin David a re part time.
So it, it's for the moment, quite comfortable.
Normally we should even get an extra uh an extra place for, you know,
temporary people coming to work on uh on projects.
Uh Yeah, I uh yeah, I counted so we have
um 15
pers physical persons
and about uh 16, I think uh persons or actually 18 persons in the offices,
counting the re the, the reading room.
Exactly. So one of the issues uh here, it's probably not on the slides
is that we would like to have uh unlike what we had until now a lounge or reading room.
Um, I, one of the, the offices. So in one of the rooms
do we
really
need to?
Um,
I think quite a lot of people express the need for that.
So if we could do it, I think it would be much nicer.
-- Um, let me also, uh, s say something. Don't forget
-- the time we spend
to,
for discussions about that room to
be able to authorize this if
possible.
Yeah, I I
still
with
you that the the we a re not so we a re not so large as far as space is concerned uh because
15 people to put in their 18
positions.
So uh to the best uh if you take
uh two people room for the reading room, then you have
-- well, 1616
-- play slots for 15 people. So it still should be feasible.
That also means that the growth will be zero.
Yeah, I think that's quite important to manage some space. Maybe we can
think of. Yeah, some two or three
for
visiting people.
Mm-hmm.
Okay. So let me finish with the the constraints which a re almost done.
So we also need to, to find a,
a spot for the photocopier, the fax machine and the printer, the fax you know,
is very small but
um the photocopier is quite huge and the printer is uh well this size
um okay, the offices come with white boards, not very uh very important.
Uh The furniture that each, each person has
and, uh, you have a list of people.
So, the thing, uh, you,
you ought to know is that we're not the only ones that we a re think that,
that a re thinking about, uh, far, well, about putting people inin these rooms.
Um, there is another group that is also having discussions.
So the idea is that today we'll just sort of start seeing the main constraints
and then
you have time to, to go and think about it.
Uh ask the people, you know, your assistants for instance,
and A t the next meeting, we'll try to,
to come with one solution.
Uh The other group will also propose a
solution and then there will be another negotiation.
-- So, and
-- if we don't get this space, then what happens?
Uh if you, if we don't get these,
um, well, basically they a re promised to us. So, uh
do, do you think there a re chances that they take from us, one of the rooms or?
Uh
okay.
Yeah. II, I think it's uh
no, the, the, the chance it might be that there a re more people to put in that space?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's one of the,
the problems I think maybe we should take this into account and
maybe think of some of the bigger rooms with four people,
one being temporary or, or part time.
Um
ok. So
maybe we could try to, to see now what would be the main options, say the general uh
well, arrangement options. Do you think that we should put
people say
according to projects, for instance, inin the table that um that we have,
uh we also have the uh
uh the, the main projects on which the people a re working.
-- So how
-- Andre sorry for interrupting.
But uh one again, clarification question,
what is the real margin of maneuver that we have for these discussions?
Because uh a t least we a re a half percent, 50% of from EPFL. And uh sometimes
you have meetings where the, the, the decision is already taken. So, uh
and uh you can spend quite a lot of time discussing things. So
what, what will be the impact of what we will
come out?
-- Oh,
-- actually,
what is fixed is the n the number of rooms this week cannot really change?
I mean, a T least not us.
It would be much more difficult to get another, another room for instance.
But what is absolutely not fixed is the arrangement of the people in the rooms?
So basically, we a re all the permutations, a re possible. That
-- other way of
-- asking the question, is there any other group already working on the,
on the,
how this should be uh should be allocated or a re we, the,
the one that is supposed to do the,
the, the position?
Well,
what we a re looking for is a solution that
suits everyone and that makes the maximum of people happy.
So,
uh the other group is, I,
I don't think we have to see them as competitors but they a re just trying to,
to find another local optimum or why,
-- why
-- don't they have any representative here?
Yeah. Why didn't we have a meeting together and
then,
uh, uh Andrea
and, and
will discuss about it with
a,
you a re, the rep representative of this group.
Yeah.
Uh, we, yeah, I think that's, yeah, there is no real competition between the two,
but we'll just try to find a t least two solutions and see how,
how close they a re actually, it's, it's, I think,
well, the,
the people who, who decided this thought it was the best solution to,
well, you know, find 22 kinds of opinions. Yeah.
Well, we could have been eight sitting around here and, and talking but I think it's,
it's more difficult.
-- Yeah.
-- But, you know, that, that's the standard thing.
It's suppose that somebody,
for some strange reasons want to be in the corner and we don't know about that.
We'll put them, put her or him somewhere else,
then we will do plenty of work for nothing because we'll not have this constraint.
We aware of this constraint.
Exactly. I think so.
So today, the goal is not to, to find a solution today, but set some constraints
and then
go and see the people and find out if they have any preferences.
Obviously we won't be able to accommodate all the, the preferences,
-- but a t least we'll find the most, uh, the most important
-- ones.
Well, certainly we have to ask, uh,
and, uh, and Maggie since they're not here
because they also have a lot of students that they have to see as we do. And so
that's another consideration too.
Yeah, I think so. That's one of the things I think we know that they have students.
We don't know exactly if they prefer for instance to be alone
or to,
well to be with their assistant or even with another person working on the project.
So
that would have been maybe another solution is to ask everyone to provide a,
an arrangement.
But uh I think that's a bit uh a bit hard then to,
to work out.
Um So since all of you have a copy of the uh well of the drawing, I think
for the next time,
maybe you could come with a concrete proposal with uh na mes on it.
But let us try to see today
whether we prefer to
organise people say by projects or just professor and assistant.
So what would be say first, your preferences since let's, let's start with us.
Maybe today.
Um What do you think about it? Would you prefer to be alone?
Would you prefer to be with your assistant?
You who a re part time? Do you think you can
come here on a very
well regular schedule or is it part time but variable during the week?
Yeah. Uh, ok.
Uh, me personally, I would like to, to, to share the, the p,
the room with the assistants as
when you have problems of normal life. Like, uh,
the printer doesn't work. I don't want to ask this to my supervisor.
So it's better to, to be with, uh, with an assistant to share the room.
Uh huh.
And since you're coming on, um, half time,
do you think you will be able to group your presence here?
Say Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday morning, or is it going to be m much more random?
I don't think it's a good idea to share a, to,
to
share the SA me desk.
Okay.
Uh, I still would like to have my drawers and these things.
Yeah, I think so too.
Um, so Martin you a re also, um, half time and, well, the third person is
Gisela.
I think it's quite clear that
each person should have their own
desk and
-- it's no, no way. We, we could put two persons a t the sa me
-- desk.
WW, where part time is important is that it's no, no
low load on the room. So, for sure if you have a part time person that reduces the,
the ranges of time where too many people a rin the room.
Yeah, I think
I
probably might be able to have a kind of a regular presence
here.
Um The uh,
the thing that fin my case has to be taken into
account is that I will have a lot of phone calls.
So I'll be talking o over the phone all the time.
So that's not necessarily,
well, it depends on, I, I have nothing against sharing a, a,
an office with somebody I already did it before.
So, and it was perfectly fine.
It just has to be somebody who can work while somebody
else is having phone calls in the in the room,
which is very much dependent on people. Some people a re not disturbed a t all by this,
some people just can't work
a re you disturbed by the phone calls of other people. I'm not.
-- But
-- uh
and uh what might happen but it uh it will not be so heavy here, uh a tio as
visitors
so that I will have more a TEPFL uh typically students coming in or asking for things
as I'm not teaching here. I'm teaching a TEPFL.
This should, shouldn't be a such a big load.
So for me, it, it will be essentially, I will not be,
I will not be able to be silent in the room because I will be
communicating also through vocal means. So
before um talking more about individual preferences,
is there any possibility what they have done in the uh
Faculty of Law for exa MP that they actually split rooms?
And so we would take uh
one of the two people rooms and split it and you
would see that you would have the sa me size office,
but that would give the privacy
um
in so far as in
just about every other faculty in the building,
every professor has their own office.
And it's, it's really uh goes a bit far that we have to have this uh all the sharing. Uh
so one option and that,
but that we would need to ask about if we could uh split one of the rooms
for boxes, for instance,
in the, in the bigger rooms where
you
like
cubicles
that doesn't really solve it.
I mean, there's, there's really a difference in having to have your own. Yeah.
And sometimes you have, uh you need to have private discussions with somebody or
whatever. So,
yeah, II I will try to find out whether we can separate, I think for the moment,
the answer a t least is no because,
um, it's not only well making a wall but also making a new door.
So it's quite a lot of uh, of work. But um, I will try to find this out for the next time.
Um So a t least for the moment as you can see
there a re uh I can show them here on the screen.
So there a re these two rooms on the left
that uh accommodate one person.
So a t least some of the professors since you a re four,
could, could go, well, could take these, uh, these rooms
and quite a lot of rooms with two persons.
Uh, how do you feel Susan about the professor sharing the room with her assistant?
So, the one which is the most involved in, in the teaching?
-- Well, I, I
-- think it's really a matter of personal preference as, you know, um,
I prefer to have my own office.
Um,
I also have a lot of phone calls and,
you know,
have to see people and with the other work that I'm doing with the rhetoric, uh
that is really confidential information that I'm treating.
So I,
that I have to be really careful about too, but it's a personal preference uh
in so far as what we've had up until now, both Maggie and Pierrette
have been happy to share with others.
So, I mean, I think that we should still check with them. I
fully agree with that.
That's uh it's much easier to me to uh
to foresee having two people of the same position,
sharing a room
but not sharing with each other.
-- They
-- sharing with their
students because that, that's, it's,
it's tricky because of confidentiality reasons. As you said,
you, you a re discussing a budget on the, on the project, you over the phone.
Typically you don't necessarily want to have somebody
who will be
dependent on the budget
being part of the discussion. So
yeah, that's um that's true.
Um, okay.
Um, maybe we could look a bit a t the projects. Do you think
it's a good idea to put together in the SA Me Room as much as possible?
People from the SA ME projects, since they talk
quite a lot of
the
project doesn't last in time.
They will change.
It's
the only thing that will not,
uh, that will change only progressively in time is the status of the people.
Well, yeah,
and some of the phd students will hopefully they will finish their phd A T some point.
Mmhm
Yeah.
And also some of our the people mentioned here
a re working on more than one project too.
So
for example,
Marianne the fin she's also working with me on the virtual campus project.
So
she that one wasn't mentioned.
I'm not saying that I necessarily want to be with her in the office.
But uh it's just to say people are working on uh sometimes more than one project.
-- If
-- it, if it, if projects are what you have in mind,
I think that the meeting room is the the tool for that
you need to have people in the project talking together,
they just have a meeting room.
If it's not too far away, then then it's a very good
well actu so the lounge could serve as some kind of meeting room.
But there a re also more formal meeting rooms available inin the building as
-- why I was
-- quite receptive to uh Susan's remark. A t the beginning is
I wouldn't formulate it in uh such uh an extreme way as do we really need a lounge?
But uh I would probably formulate it in a way that uh do we want
to have only a lounge or something that can be used only as a reading room?
Because, because meeting rooms to me,
a re very important tools to do uh collaborative work.
But
I think
we need to have to relax. So
that's,
and I think also we need a separate discussion on the furnishing of the lounge,
-- which is a
-- whole other topic.
No, I um the lounge. Okay.
But I think we need to also see it as a overflow
place when we have um uh visitors for any length of time.
-- So they actually have a place to work
-- cause that's really my,
one of my worries with the plan that we have here is that it's, it
pro provides no
possible possibilities of expansion
and this will happen. I mean, you can't, you can't prevent having visitors
-- and you
-- should.
Yeah.
Yeah. For the moment, actually, I think only one slot would be fully free.
Uh That is for
-- people. It's not
-- enough.
Yeah, that means one visitor a T A time or one intern. Yeah, that
professors here and, and,
and it's funny
that we
building because we run out of space and we will have the sa me problem.
Yes. But we have more space here than what we
-- currently have. Yeah, it's
-- already a progress
and you're, you're working.
Uh, I think, yeah. W
okay.
So, one of the things I have to do for the next time is find,
-- find out about the separations between rooms
-- because this
is really related with security regulation as well.
I mean, you can't just put walls inin rooms.
Yeah, I think it's quite a heavy
-- transformation of the building, not
-- necessarily heavy in terms of work.
It's heavy in terms of administrative authorisation
and okay,
I'll try to find out.
And the other question is,
-- can we squeeze maybe four people in the A or a t least four places in the 33 p
-- room?
I think. So if you organise the desks in a,
in a intelligent way,
yeah, hopefully visitors don't need as much say, filing space or
uh
yeah, they don't have that many papers.
Uh Okay. So that's uh I have to, to ask.
So you don't really feel um very strongly
attached to this uh grouping by project idea.
Mm-hmm.
No,
because they can share their ideas across the project and
-- it's uh coffee
-- machines that they made for them.
Yeah. Usually when, when newer assistants come,
they would like to share the room with someone that knows
uh uh it's related
with the project. So
you can
see that's
proximity doesn't play a big role there.
You can discuss
with people and
the space is very small. I mean, all together it's,
and uh you don't, you, you don't need to discuss about the projects.
You f more need about the, to discuss about where is the printer?
How do I get furniture?
I'm, I don't have a, a pencil. Where is the, the box with the pencils and so on?
This is not project related.
You know, if you look now at the, at the,
the current division of the offices, for example,
uh Bruno and Agnes are sharing an office
and they're working on totally different projects and
then they're, they're just fine with that.
Yeah, I think that's, that's going to be one of the,
the main things we'll have to ask is whether people have strong preferences,
either in staying with someone or in, uh not staying,
um,
a re you aware of any strong constraints right now?
Well, there, there were, but they sort of disappeared
as of
October when,
you know, smoking
because before we were
smokers and now that there's no smoking,
I guess that's not very important option though.
Ok. Yeah, that's true. So, smoking is now
no longer a constrain.
Well,
except
for
maybe you don't
want anybody smoking on your balcony. So,
is it allowed to smoke inside an office if it's one
person? Not anymore?
No, it's
in principle, it's a, it's a no smoking building, you can smoke outside
so you can go outside onto the,
not
even
-- regulation for
-- all of the 6000 students on
the
roof,
uh, on the balcony. Actual,
-- normally
-- there's the, there's that terrace
but
just, there's no place inside the building,
it's a no
smoking campus but there a re some places
still, some places where
can see
but,
and
just
about, about your, your previous uh request.
I,
I don think that anyone will provide you information such as
who doesn't want to be with whom that's a typical uh
output of ex uh research and expert systems.
These a re the rules that you'll never get, but uh you can get them through a proposal.
So you propose a
set up where people a re with other peoples
and they will find politically correct ways to tell you that
uh they don't want to have a view on the mountains,
but they prefer to have view on the old town.
-- So they
-- on the toilets,
they would prefer to be in another.
We, we do have one constraint that's difficult, which is um
Gisela because when she's there, she's very noisy.
Part
of
the nature of her work that
uh
yes,
Martin said also for him and yeah, especially for her.
Yeah, the I
she's the interface.
-- And
-- so that's a problem.
You're right because, because we don't have a one person,
we d we don't have enough one person rooms for accommodating the uh the admin place.
And if you put two person persons or three persons for the admin space, who who,
who else will you put in there?
Because we don't have any uh system manager or we don't have,
we have only one half, part, half time, uh admin
and no other non researcher positions if I'm not mistaken.
And this is really a piece of a problem. Maybe you could put some visitors. But, um,
yeah,
I,
uh
realistic. Inainain, I
think putting
Gisela with the other admin of the school
is not an option because we weren't offered.
Yeah, it would be nice. But uh
okay, I'll try to find out but uh
-- the research
-- there,
let's just either you lose one position or
you find another admin or assistant manager.
Yeah, I
-- mean,
-- there is certainly enough space uh down the hall
with all of those uh uh offices that a re
where half of them a re also half time and they're very under used.
-- So, um
-- okay, we'll try but all these, yeah, a re
say sort of difficult questions because they involve
changing also the offices of the school and,
you know, people just don't wanna change in general.
Um
Let's see, maybe we can find some temporary, well, a t least a proposal for
Gisela.
So since the one person rooms a re quite
well sort of um desired by a lot of people,
she
-- should
-- probably
there a re to me there,
a re two options possible is either we can take
one of the one person rooms for the admin because
some of typically the professors have good reasons for sharing,
sharing either with a colleague or sharing uh with
some of their uh one of their phd students.
In that case, it's, it's realistic, then we could very, very simply
uh allocate the one pers one of the one person rooms for the admin.
And that would solve the problem.
The other thing is to take a two person room for the admin.
That could be the one, close to the, close to the, um,
-- here in the centre. So, uh, the, the,
-- the middle one here
-- but
-- the no, no, no, the other one, the, the one up. Yeah, this
one.
Ok.
But then uh that the,
the question of what do we do with the second position there remains fully open.
So I would be, I would be more of the opinion to, to see whether it's,
it's so evident that let's say the A t least the two full,
full time professors that a re here on the list, we have one here.
But uh Maggie is, is not present if they really,
yeah,
if,
because of personal preferences,
they would be happy with a two person room
which might or might not be the case.
I mean, it's, it's certainly not uh, something that we should impose, but we can ask.
-- Yeah,
-- because in this case, yeah,
Gisela could take one of the,
the two person rooms and the other place would be for some kind of visitor,
-- but it's not
-- realistic neither.
I mean, you have,
you have a for foreign researcher coming visiting you and you will put,
put him in the admin office.
Okay.
-- Uh, you'll not
-- do that. I mean, uh, maybe you can do that with an exchange student.
That's
ann
but you can't take a senior visitor and, uh, to sit him in the, in the
-- secretary
-- we, we invite
and then we say, OK, you can.
Yeah, OK.
Okay. So this sets a bit the stage for uh for
Gisela then
uh yeah, we'll try to, to find out.
Um Actually, yeah,
maybe we should remind that quite a lot of professors A T
the A T the school actually share their office with their assistant.
-- So it looks like sort of an implicit tradition, maybe not to be
-- for
every
other
faculty.
OK.
Yes, it is. So
every other faculty as far as
I have seen their offices and the people that I know
and that's in um
in law,
socio economics. Uh OK. It's
uh they all have their own office,
I mean, and, and the,
-- and the law faculty, they a best they have
-- done,
as we said, it's, it's really a matter of personal preference.
It cannot be something else it can be imposed for sure.
Um
Okay, so I think,
well, this sets a bit the, the stage.
Uh could we try? So could you try please to
uh do you want an extra uh piece of paper, maybe try to, well,
-- think on your own and then talk a little bit just to the people around you
-- again.
Uh uh Andre, I think that the only realistic way we can do is to speak for our,
for ourselves.
I can tell you according to what I know now
where I would like or would be ready to be,
but I really don't see how I could decide for, uh, Maggie or Pierre
-- or whoever
-- else on the list
was to try
to,
well, just talk to them like
-- we do
-- it like for, for the, the set up of meetings. You, you,
everyone received that and, uh, should provide. Yeah, I would like to be here
and then
you will have this
multi constrained problem and, uh, you work during two
hours and
you ask people just for their place or also for the other people's places,
the
thing you want to know.
-- But what
-- about the, the, the cafeteria? I mean, we a re going to pay
us a cafeteria with a projector and
all this
all together or
living
it's all together.
But that's an open question. Whether it's a, it's a, it's a, it,
a t the origin, it was supposed to be a pure reading room for relaxing, uh,
reading the newspapers, t cetera, et cetera.
Uh, there has been a very long discussion about that.
I think sh uh,
this discussion is still vivid that some of the people I
bel belong to these people would like to have a mixed
room where you can have a reading room for sure. But also a meeting room if necessary.
Or as uh Susan said, a room,
an emergency room where you can put uh some visitors in a decent environment for,
for, for, for work
because you don't have any other place to do it.
But that's, that's really an open discussion that,
that I think no decision, no final.
Okay,
then taken about that. Okay, then for the next time
uh trying to come up either with your own preferences,
that's quite easy probably to state now that, you know,
the constraints or if you can poll a little bit the people around you, that would be,
I mean, the
one that I don't want
you have in the next room.
Well, just discuss it.
Yeah, for instance, I mean, no, no,
I was thinking just ask people around you what they think about this.
And I think, yeah, it would be nice to, to come with maybe a sketch of, of these.
If you can do slides, it's even better. But uh don't be that formal
and uh we'll try to a t least build up
one coherent proposal and we'll merge it with the other one
when the other one is available.
I'll
ask um
uh
that,
that, that of course, is one of the main,
well, not main, but one of the important
-- features
-- that we need to. Yeah,
they're not a t the meeting. I think it's, uh,
and I'll try to
just before finishing. Uh, I mean,
we have a cafeteria
-- or we don't need a t
-- all,
what do you mean by cafeteria?
Exactly.
What, uh, we can take a coffee also.
There is no coffee in the reading room.
-- We can bring your coffee in the reading
-- room and
buying
the
coffee machine.
So, so
since maybe you're part time here and part time, part time.
A tepfl there a reat least two
coffee machines in the building. One A T the third floor, one A T the first floor
and we can close
our coffee,
no uh automatic uh coffee machine.
Ok.
So
uh
yeah,
-- no, there's
-- the cafeterias downstairs
but they close A T five.
The
main problem. Yeah,
but there's the two machines and they're uh
the vending machines where you just put
the
machine
and you can bring your coffee in the,
yeah, maybe this is not a very bad timing. Could we try to meet um
next
um, next Tuesday, maybe a T th maybe a bit later, maybe a T
11 o'clock.
Um,
come on, try, try to be nice.
Give
me a reason.
Um We have, don't forget we have the other meeting, the MD M meeting in the morning.
So it would have to be in the afternoon.
We have a meeting
that
might be where is the meeting. It's
Yeah.
Okay.
-- So yeah, yeah, then it could be
-- 930 but we could do,
we could have this meeting and in the afternoon.
-- Okay,
-- great because that would
allow
-- us not to move
-- very
well.
So about two o'clock, would that be okay after
lunch
after
it's not a very demanding meeting? So, uh okay,
perfect.
Um
then let me close this
and uh good luck for your arrangement. Ga Mes
two CD MC.
You are not using the the the time
that
you know that they can
track, the time
could take
but you were not using it.
No.
Uh yeah, I I will tell you why.
Ok.